.TH "mpvc-tui" "1" "April 21, 2026" "" ""
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
mpvc-tui - Terminal User Interface for displaying the MPV playlist and
playback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc-tui [options] [files]
\f[R]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
mpvc-tui is a terminal-based user interface that displays
status/playlist info of the currently mpv instance.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-d\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--dir PATH\f[B]\f[R]
Set the working directory to the specified media directory.
All media operations will be relative to this directory.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-h\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--help\f[B]\f[R]
Display the help message and exit.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-H\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--history\f[B]\f[R]
Start the mpvc-tui history interface.
This allows you to browse and replay previously played media.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-k\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--kill\f[B]\f[R]
Stop the currently running mpvc-tui instance.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-n\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--notify\f[B]\f[R]
Enable desktop notifications for mpvc events using notify-send.
Notifications will appear for playback state changes and media
transitions.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]--socket PATH\f[B]\f[R]
Set the MPV socket path.
Overrides the default socket connection (defaults to MPV\[cq]s standard
socket if not specified).
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-s\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--suggest\f[B]\f[R]
Suggest a random media item to play based on previously played media.
Useful for discovering content from your history.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-S\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--scrobbler\f[B]\f[R]
Start the mpvc-tui scrobbler interface.
This feature tracks and logs media that you play.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-t\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--tui\f[B]\f[R]
Start the main TUI for managing the MPV playlist (uses rlwrap for
enhanced readline functionality).
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-T\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--Tui\f[B]\f[R]
Combo option that starts mpvc-tui with both TUI (-t) and desktop
notifications (-n) enabled.
This is the recommended starting option.
Additional files provided as arguments will be added to the playlist.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-x\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--launch\f[B]\f[R]
Start mpvc-tui in a new xterm window.
This respects the \f[C]$MPVC_TUI_TERM\f[R] environment variable for
terminal selection.
Can be combined with other options.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-v\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--version\f[B]\f[R]
Display the mpvc-tui version and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start TUI with notifications for a media directory
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc-tui -d \[ti]/Music -T
mpvc-tui -t
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Enable desktop notifications separately
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc-tui -n
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Launch in a new terminal window
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc-tui -x -t -d \[ti]/Music
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Access playback history
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc-tui -H
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Enable media scrobbling
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc-tui -S
\f[R]
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
MPVC_TUI_TERM
Specifies the terminal emulator to use when launching mpvc-tui with the
-x option.
If not set, xterm is used as the default.
.TP
MPV_SOCKET
Override the default MPV socket path.
Can also be set directly using the \[en]socket option.
.TP
XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Directory where mpvc configuration is stored.
Defaults to \[ti]/.config/ if not set.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
mpv(1)
Media player engine
.TP
mpvc(1)
mpv client
.TP
notify-send(1)
Desktop notifications (Linux/Unix)
.TP
rlwrap(1)
Readline wrapper for TUI input
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
mpvc(1), mpvc-fzf(1), mpv(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Manual written by gmt4.
See https://github.com/gmt4/mpvc for more information.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Report bugs at: https://github.com/gmt4/mpvc/issues
