.TH "mpvc" "1" "April 21, 2026" "" ""
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
mpvc - mpc-like command-line control interface for mpv
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc [options] [file|URL|PLAYLIST|-]
mpvc [options] [files]
\f[R]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
mpvc is a command-line utility that provides mpc-like control over the
mpv media player.
It allows users to manage playback, control volume, add and remove media
from the playlist, and display playlist information through a simple
command-line interface.
.PP
The tool communicates with mpv via a Unix socket, enabling remote
control of playback without direct interaction with the mpv window.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Playback Control
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-P\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--play\f[B]\f[R]
Start playback of the current media.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-p\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--toggle\f[B]\f[R]
Toggle between play and pause states.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-s\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--stop\f[B]\f[R]
Stop playback completely.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]--next\f[B]\f[R]
Jump to the next entry in the playlist.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]--prev\f[B]\f[R]
Jump to the previous entry in the playlist.
.SS Playlist Management
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-a\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--add FILE\f[B]\f[R]
Add a file or URL to the playlist.
Supports local files, YouTube URLs, and other media sources.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-r\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--remove ID\f[B]\f[R]
Remove a playlist entry by its numeric ID.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-i\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--playlist\f[B]\f[R]
Display the current playlist with filenames truncated to fit terminal
width.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-I\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--fullplaylist\f[B]\f[R]
Display the complete current playlist with full filenames.
.SS Loop and Repeat Modes
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]--repeat\f[B]\f[R]
Enable loop mode for the entire playlist.
Playback will restart from the beginning after reaching the end.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]--single\f[B]\f[R]
Enable single-file loop mode.
The current file will repeat indefinitely.
.SS Volume Control
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-v\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--vol [+-]N\f[B]\f[R]
Adjust volume by the specified amount.
Use +N to increase or -N to decrease volume.
Without an argument, displays current volume.
.SS Information and Help
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-h\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--help\f[B]\f[R]
Display short help message with basic usage information.
.TP
\f[B]\f[CB]-H\f[B]\f[R], \f[B]\f[CB]--help-long\f[B]\f[R]
Display detailed help message with all available options and examples.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Add a file to the playlist:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc -a /path/to/song.mp3
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Toggle playback:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc -p
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Increase volume by 5:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc -v +5
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Decrease volume by 10:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc -v -10
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Display current playlist:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc -i
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Jump to next track:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc \[ga]--next\[ga]
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Stop playback:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc -s
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Enable repeat mode:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc \[ga]--repeat\[ga]
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Remove track with ID 3:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
mpvc -r 3
\f[R]
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
MPV_SOCKET
Path to the mpv Unix socket.
If not set, mpvc will attempt to locate the default socket
automatically.
.SH FILES
.TP
\[ti]/.config/mpv/mpv.conf
Main mpv configuration file.
.TP
\[ti]/.config/mpvc/mpvc.conf
mpvc-specific configuration file.
.TP
\[ti]/.config/mpvc/yt-dlp.conf
Configuration for yt-dlp integration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
mpv(1), mpc(1), mpvc-fzf(1), mpvc-web(1), mpvc-tui(1), mpvc-equalizer(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Manual written by gmt4.
See https://github.com/gmt4/mpvc for more information.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Report bugs at: https://github.com/gmt4/mpvc/issues
